# PathFinder

## About the Application

This application was designed to help travelers find the shortest path to visit all the cities in a given list.
Our application is especially intended for people working in science, as it integrates a database containing various individuals holding different roles (Student, Lecturer, Researcher) and specializing in several disciplines.
We allow the user to sort the list of people they wish to visit according to different criteria.


## How to Compile and Run the Project

First, clone the project from GitHub and extract the ZIP file.

Then, in order to run our application using your PostgreSQL database, follow the steps below:

1) Run the queries contained in the `creationBaseDeDonneesVilles.sql` file, which is located in the project folder (`ChercheurChemin`). 
These queries will create two initial relations: departments and cities, as well as populate them with data.

2) Then, open your terminal and navigate to the `ChercheurChemin` folder (which is also inside the main project folder – `ChercheurChemin`).

### Compilation

3) First, you need to clear the folder containing previously generated executable files using the following command:
```bash
rm -r bin
```

4) Then, to compile the project, run the following command:
```bash
javac -d bin -cp "lib/postgresql-42.7.4.jar" src/affichage/*.java src/affichage/affichageAlgo/*.java src/affichage/affichageEcosysteme/*.java src/affichage/affichageAlgo/choixPersonne/*.java src/affichage/affichageAlgo/choixVille/*.java src/baseDeDonnees/*.java src/filtrage/*.java src/genetique/*.java src/main/*.java src/objetsAuxiliaires/*.java src/peuple/*.java src/representationSolution/*.java src/territoire/*.java src/verificationEntree/*.java
```

### Execution

5) To run the project, please use the following command:
```bash
java -cp "bin:lib/*" main.Main
```

6) Follow the instructions displayed to connect the program to your database.
If you don’t know your database URL, it follows this format:
jdbc:postgresql://localhost:VOTRE_PORT/NOM_DE_LA_BASE_DE_DONNEE.

### Execution via Eclipse

You can also open the project in Eclipse and run it directly from the IDE.


## Specific Features of Our Program

Our program can be used via the terminal or through a graphical interface.
At launch, the user is given the choice to type ‘terminal’ or ‘ui’ (for user interface). Based on this choice, the interactions will happen:
- Either through the terminal.
- Or via a graphical window that will open automatically.


## Features of Our Program

### Sorting Functionality

Our program offers several sorting methods to organize the list of people according to different criteria.
The sorting criteria are the following: by city, region, – population and area of the city or region as well –, department, capital city, first name, last name, ID, age, disciplines, role – lecturer, researcher, students –, number of students (for researchers), office number (for tenured staff), students (for tenured staff), supervisors (for students), thesis topic and thesis year (for students).
We tried to give you as many selection criteria as possible.

### Attention ! 

In the selection part of the graphical interface, when you have to choose city names (or department, ID, name, first name...) or people, please follow these steps: 
1. Double-click on a suggestion to select it.
2. Click “Add” to include it in the list. 
3. Once all desired items are added, click “Validate” to confirm your choice.


### Modifying the Database

Our program comes with a default database containing various people. But you can modify it!
The user can add, delete, and modify people as much as they want.
Some consistency rules are applied to ensure data integrity. If an action requested by the user is not allowed, the program will clearly indicate it.

### Generation of the Best Path

Our program offers several options to display the best path generated by the algorithm:

Direct display:
In the graphical window (if the graphical interface is used).
In the terminal (if the terminal option is chosen).

Export to a Text File:
The user can choose the location where to save the text file containing the generated path.

Export to an HTML File:
The user can choose the location where to save the HTML file containing the generated path.
